All right.
Let's see what else can we do with the list interface, what other methods are on it?
So let's jump down here and we'll just invoke our collection and do a period and then a control space
and then we can see all the other methods that are here.
So we've already used add.
That's pretty straightforward.
But there's another overloaded version of the add method that does almost the same thing, except that
we can also specify where in the list the new object should be added.
So I don't know.
Let's let's try that out real quick and see how it works.
So we'll do an ad.
And then if we look at this list here, let's just add we'll just had someone to the beginning of the
list, OK, and we'll make a new person.
In fact, let's see.
So we'll say zero, right?
That'll be the first location.
And so what's going to happen here is that all of these other people will be shifted down or to the
right.
However, you want to think of your your list there, right?
So they'll be shifted down by one to make room for a new zero with employee.
OK, so zero comma and then I can now I can do this in line.
Like this new let's see programmer, let's say.
And then I could pass in some text or something, I'm not going to complete this, but you get the idea
right?
And so that would result in a new programmer being added to the to the top of this list or to the first
slot in this list and all of the subsequent people would be shifted down.
All right.
So that's the alternative to add.
Let's see.
What else can we do?
Let's see, we've already seen a little bit of contains, which we used right here on Line 68 to determine
whether or not the list of names to be removed contained any of these first names.
Now we will revisit the contains method in its own separate lesson because there are some additional
things that you should know if you ever wanted to use it in a little bit more of a sophisticated way
than what we have currently done by just comparing strings.
So I'm not going to go into any more detail on that here.
It'll get its own lesson.
All right, let's see at all.
It can be pretty convenient.
Let's take a quick look at that.
I think what we'll do here, I'm going to create a new list.
Of strings.
New strings equals new, and I'm going to start off with it being empty.
And then what I will do is new strings, dot add all.
And now what I can do here, actually, I put that in the wrong place.
Let me move it down here.
Here we go.
There we go.
OK, now what I can do is I can add our undesirables list to this list, to this new list using at all.
OK, so whereas add method allows us to add one new object at a time.
Add all allows us to add a whole entire collection to an already existing list altogether, right?
So let's see.
So I can just reference the undesirables list like so and then if I were to do something like new strings
that size and now if I were to do new strings that size, it would have the same size as our undesirables
list, which would be three.
OK, so that would just add all of these to this.
Sometimes that comes up in programming where you'll need to create a new list.
Maybe that new list already had some items in it and then you have some other list from somewhere else
with items in it and you want to basically put them all together.
So add all can be used to do that kind of thing in a non-destructive way.
By the way, let me also mention this while I'm at it on this list sort of method here, where we were
conveniently able to create a new list of three items is great.
However, one thing that I failed to point out is the resulting list that gets created when we use lists
sort of is what we call unmodified beable, which means that once this guy has been created, we can't
add anything else to it or we can't delete anything from it, either we can't add or remove any any
further items to or from this list.
It's on modifiable.
And that's just the pattern of the of methods for set for collections.
So you'll we'll learn that set also has an of a method on it.
So one of the reasons for this is that it is generally just considered dangerous or error prone to have
objects, including collections that can be modified after they've been initialized.
And lately, Java has been adopting more and more functional programming paradigms and using unmodified
liable objects is a big part of functional programming.
And so we're seeing more and more of these kinds of patterns where you can create a lot of things real
quick, but they can't be modified.
So if you did want to be able to create this list as we're doing here and then modify it later, one
way you could do that would be to create a new modifiable list, as we're doing here online 51, and
then just add all of the items from the UN modifiable list into the modifiable list.
And now you have something that you can modify.
OK, so that's a that's one way you can do that.
You also could do something like this.
You could wrap this inside of an array list, a regular array list like so.
And now what comes out of here is modifiable.
OK, so you could do that as well.
So these collection classes all have constructors that can be initialized with another collection.
OK.
And then if you do it this way, it's modifiable.
So these are just like, you know, little knickknacks that are good to know.
OK, so I'm going to delete that.
OK.
Let's see what else we can do.
Clear.
That just deletes that just clears out the collection or the list.
So anything that was in there will just be gone.
OK.
All in one.
So rather than doing remove one at a time, if you just want to clear everything out, you can just
call clear.
Contains all is also kind of a special case will look at that in its own separate lesson when we talk
about contains.
I'm skipping over equals, that's just the regular equals method that is inherited by all objects.
We've already seen get where we pass in an index and then that gives us that particular index of the
object in the list.
Hash code is an inherited method from the superclass of object will skip over that for now.
Index of.
Now that's a that's a nice one.
So let me show you how index of wood work.
What I will do is first, we'll get we'll get the third object in the list, OK, and I'll save it and
I will name it third.
OK.
So this would get the third object in the list because we're zero based.
But then what I could do is employees dot index of and now I can pass in this object called third.
And this index method will return an integer, as you can see here, and it'll just return the number
two.
OK, so it's just the opposite of doing a get.
OK, now there are a couple of things to be aware of that I will try to remember to mention when we
learn a little bit more about containers and some of the a few other methods.
But this approach that I've just shown here would work perfectly well.
So you just get the number to back out.
All right.
So that index of let's see what else is empty.
So if we clear everything out and then we call is empty, it just returns a boolean true or false to
tell us if the collection is empty or not.
So pretty straightforward.
OK, and then very similar to the index of method, we also have a last index of.
Now this is interesting.
It's pretty straightforward.
The reason that there are two index of methods, though, is because a list can hold duplicate objects.
OK, so you could have the same object in a list multiple times.
In fact, every single element in a list could be the same object duplicated multiple times.
OK.
Lists allow that.
Now there's at least one other type of collection, which is a set which does not allow for duplicates.
It will just ignore duplicate objects if you tried to add them to it, but lists do not ignore them.
Lists allow for duplicates.
So if you have the possibility for duplicates, you have the possibility that when you ask a list,
what is the index of an object?
You may want to know what is the index of the first time that object is in the list?
Or what is the index of the last time that same object is in the list, right?
The last time it shows up in that list?
And that's what last index of is for.
OK, I will skip over the iterator methods for now.
We've seen both forms of the removed method remove.
All is very similar to to remove with an object, except it takes an entire collection.
And so every item that is in the incoming collection, if that item exists in the list, it will be
removed from the list.
OK.
And then replace all is a special case that we will look at at a later time.
Retain all is kind of interesting.
So let's say that we have a list containing objects A, B, C, D, E and F, and then we have another
list containing objects A, B and C, if we call retain all on the first list and we pass in the second
list as the input to the retain all.
What will happen is only the intersection of these two lists will be retained in the first list.
That is to say where we had A, B, C, D, E and F in the first list and a B and C in the second.
When you're done with all of this, you'll just have a, B and C in the first list as well.
Everything other than A, B and C will just be let go of.
OK.
So it gives you the it gives you the intersection of those two lists remaining in the first list.
Set allows us to replace an item or an element in a list.
So if you used to have a B and C in the list and A was at index zero, you could replace A with D,
for example.
OK, so let's see what that kind of looks like.
So currently, we have the first Fred Flintstone in Element Zero or at index zero in the list.
Let's say that we wanted to have Betty rubble.
In that place, instead, we just wanted to erase Fred Flintstone and replace him with Betty rubble.
So one way that we could do that would be to set index zero because that's the first one, right?
And.
We could create a new employee.
Create employee.
And then just pass in the tax form of that, that will result in creating an actual object of type employee
that is a CEO.
And so the resulting person would replace this Fred Flintstone.
OK?
Does that make sense?
So that just lets you replace an element in the list arbitrarily, depending on the index.
OK, sort is actually a really cool method, and I'm going to save that for a later lesson as well,
because we'll want to kind of dive into that very useful.
It does what it sounds like it does.
It allows us to sort the items in a collection.
But there's a couple of things that we need to learn before we can dive into that.
All right.
So we'll come back to that one in another lesson, sub list is pretty cool.
We supply it with a start and an end index of an existing list, and then it returns a smaller list,
supposedly a sub list of the greater list that we started with.
OK, so pretty straightforward, really.
If we take a look at the Java doc for it, it says that it returns a view of the portion of the list
between the specified from index inclusive.
So this is the key thing here, inclusive for on the from and to index exclusive.
So we see this pattern a lot whenever we're able to to pass in a range of things.
Usually, the bottom or the beginning part of the range is inclusive and then the upper bounds is exclusive
in a lot of these Java methods.
So that's one thing that just kind of keep in mind, OK, so what does that mean?
Basically, that means like if we were looking at this list here and we wanted zero, one and two,
I'm talking about the indexes here.
OK?
Zero, one and two.
Then we could get that sub list by passing in a zero and a three.
OK.
And that would give us zero one and two three would not be included.
And so we could do that like this.
Zero comma, three.
So then this would result in a new list being returned.
Subbed list.
For example, we can call it whatever we want.
OK.
But that's how you would use the subleased method to give you a smaller subset of a pre-existing list.
OK, and then we've got these two methods here to array.
Now what this does is it basically just converts our list into an actual array and for the array list,
that should be very trivial to do since internally it's using an array anyway.
Actually, it's pretty trivial to do for both the linked list and the array list, but the array list
may not have to do anything at all other than simply expose what's already inside of its own internal
array.
So as you see here, it returns back an object array.
OK, now the difference between these two implementations is the specificity of the types.
OK, so this first two array method just returns back a generic array of objects, and that's with a
capital o.
So as you will recall, all classes in Java ultimately extend from the super super class called object.
And so you can always store any type of object, no matter what it is inside of a variable or an array
of type object with capital.
Now, that's not a safe thing to do, usually because it's nondescript, right?
You don't get the benefits of of type checking and things of that sort.
You're just putting it in a big giant grab bag of anything.
It pretty much defeats much of the whole point of a statically typed language like Java.
But you can do it.
So this first method doesn't try to honor whatever the data types are.
It just gives you back an array of objects.
The second method, though, actually uses generics so that we can get back an array of the proper type.
So let me show you what that would look like to do.
So first, let me just show you, if we just use the basic two array method and then I capture that.
Generic array, so you just get back.
An array of objects, so not the best, not the best at all, you pretty much don't really want to use
this unless you're working with a method that is that you didn't write that is expecting this as its
input type.
And then you have no choice.
OK, so that's one reason and maybe the only reason I can think of why you should ever use this.
But then the other version?
So for the other version of two array, what it takes as an input is an actual array of whatever the
data type is that we're caring about.
OK.
So basically what that means is we have to create an array of the data type where we're interested in.
So let me show you what that would look like.
So we'll call this method and then to create an array.
You use the new operator and then you refer to the data type, which in this case would be I employee
like so.
And then you use the square brackets.
And then we can initialize it so we don't actually need to store anything in this array.
It's just like a template, if you will.
And so we can initialize it to size zero, like so OK.
And then semicolon.
And now if I capture this.
Other array.
Now I get something of the proper type.
That's the whole point of doing this, OK is just to tell Java what is the actual data type that we
need this array to be?
And then it will spit out an array of that correct type.
Now this array will be populated with all of our elements, though.
OK.
Already populated.
And that's the whole point of this.
So sometimes there will be methods of the library.
Oftentimes, it'll be an old library that is expecting you to pass in an array of objects rather than
a collection.
And so but but internally in your own code, you've been working with collections.
So in that case, you can just ask the collection to convert itself essentially to an array.
And you can do so with either of these approaches, though this second one should be your preferred
approach because it is more type safe.
OK, and there's one last thing that I want to cover in this lesson, and it's a really simple one.
So let's go back up here to line thirty seven, and we had originally created an array list and I showed
you that because restoring our instance of the list in a variable of the generic interface type, right,
we're storing it in a variable of the interface rather than the specific implementation of the list.
We had the flexibility to switch our implementation without making any code changes, right?
So we switched this from an array list to a linked list.
All right.
So I'm going to put this back to an array list because I just want to show you one other little thing
array list.
OK.
So the constructor for array list is overloaded, which means that there are multiple versions of it.
So obviously we have this no ARG version.
I also showed you in this lesson that you could also pass in another collection to the constructors
of most of the collection classes.
So in other words, that you could do something like list of and then specify a bunch of a bunch of
things, right?
And then those would get added to this list so you could do that.
But there's one other thing that I want to show you as well.
Since the array list specifically uses an array internally to store its items, and whenever an array
is initially created, it has to be initialized with a size.
Now we can do that by specifying the actual size as a number when we create the array.
So kind of like we're doing right here.
In fact, this is the size of the array that we want to create, so we could pass in any number here.
OK?
When we use an array list, the array list, if we don't specify anything else, it will use a default
value to initialize its own internal array.
However, we can actually override this.
So if you happen to know, or if you happen to have an idea of how large you want the internal array
of your array list to be, you can specify that right here.
So in our case, if I wanted to count these all up, let's see what is this 30 minus 14.
So that's 16, right?
So if I know that I'm going to have exactly 16 items in this list, initially at least, then I could
initialize it with exactly that number.
Now the benefit to doing this is you prevent the array list from creating an array that is too big and
therefore wasting memory or too small, and therefore wasting time when you exceed the internal arrays
initial capacity and then cause the array list to have to create another bigger array and then copy
everything over.
And by the way, when it does that, it still doesn't know how big does this thing finally need to be?
So if your intention is to ultimately add 16 items to this array list, and let's just say that if you
don't specify a size that the array list decides to initially create an internal array of size.
Seven.
OK, now it won't do that, it's going to be bigger than that.
But let's say it starts off with a seven.
OK.
And so then you're going through your loop and you're adding employees as we're doing here, and then
you get to the eighth one and you try to add that.
So then the array list says, Oh, the array isn't big enough.
The internal array isn't big enough to hold an eighth item.
I better create a bigger array and then copy everything that I have into this new array so that I have
more room.
The array list may choose to simply double whatever it had before, so if it started off with an array
of seven elements size, it may double it to 14.
OK, so now creates an an array of 14.
It copies the existing seven, which takes time, and now you can add the eighth one.
However, when you get to the 15th element, it says, Oh, it's too small again.
And so what you've now done is waste a lot of time in computer time, right?
I mean, we're still talking probably milliseconds here, but it is a waste of time to cause the Java
runtime environment really Java to cause Java to have.
To create a raise three times when you could have gotten it right in one time, if you had known beforehand
how many elements you were actually going to need.
Now if you know it, then it's a great idea to be able to just specify this.
If you don't know it, then you don't have much of a choice, right?
But I just wanted to point that out that if you do know the array size, it certainly doesn't hurt.
It's actually better and more efficient to go ahead and specify it.
Now, it doesn't lock you down.
If you try to add a 17th element to the array list, then it's going to just go through what I just
said, and it's going to create a bigger array.
Copy everything over.
Let the original array get garbage collected and then keep going from there.
And it'll just keep doing that until you run out of memory or you're done adding elements.
All right.
So that's all I'm going to cover in this lesson.
And in the next lesson, we'll dig in on some of those other methods that I intentionally didn't want
to touch here because they will get a little more involved.
I'll see you in the next one.